[Music]
the Statue of Liberty is one of the most
if not the most famous monuments in the
world anyone visiting New York City can
see er but not everyone knows that Lady
Liberty has her own secrets one of them
is she might not even be a lady at all
counting down from number nine the
Statue of Liberty was once split into
pieces it's really hard to picture it
but the Statue actually arrived from
France on June 17th 1885 in over 300
copper pieces the precious cargo was
traveling in 214 crates on the
friendship is there the iconic arm
holding the torch wasn't there however
it was standing in Madison Square Park
for six years to help raise money to
sponsor the pedestal when the ship
carrying the statue arrived 200,000
people came to welcome it to the US the
official dedication ceremony took place
on October 28 1886 with President Grover
Cleveland presiding over it
number eighth it was one of history's
first crowdfunding campaigns first
French sculptor Frederic Auguste Abarth
Pauli raised funds in his country to
build a statue it wasn't actually
sponsored by the local government when
it was finished the sculptor offered it
as a gift to the US on one condition
they would build a pedestal for the
federal government didn't like the idea
so the status of the statue was unclear
for a few years then American newspaper
magnate Joseph Pulitzer stepped in he
basically started one of the first
massive crowdfunding campaigns in
history promising every contributor an
honorary shout-out in his newspapers
even though 80% of the donations were
small ones from middle-class citizens
Pulitzer managed to collect the
necessary amount from over 120 thousand
donors by the way the famous sonnet the
new Colossus which can still be found on
a bronze plaque inside the statue was
also part of the fundraising campaign
seven the Statue of Liberty wasn't
always green the Statue of Liberty is
made of copper so it was originally
about the same color as a penny
according to the New York Historical
Society it turned completely green
because of oxidation in 1920 there was a
time when it was half brown in half
green the new color survived the
restoration and they say the coating
called patina won't ever disappear 6 it
used to serve as a lighthouse the statue
was originally supposed to serve as a
lighthouse for ships sailing into New
York Harbor and 2 years after it arrived
in the u.s. it actually became one for
16 years
the statues lamp served as a beacon but
it wasn't bright enough and running out
of ideas to fix it
Bartoli offered to cover the entire
statue in gold to make it brighter
Congress said no to that idea since it
would have been crazy expensive five
it's all about number seven it's easy to
notice the statue has seven spikes on
its crown symbolizing Universal Liberty
across the seven oceans and continents
the less obvious reference to the number
seven is in the number of windows in its
head there are 25 of them which makes
seven if you add up the digits there are
sixteen leaves around the torch and the
monument itself is 151 feet tall the sum
of both of those digits is 7 as well
clearly that number meant a lot for the
statues creators number 4 the
constructions supporting the statue was
designed by Gustave Eiffel
the pedestal of the Statue of Liberty
was built in old fort wood on Liberty
Island it currently hosts museums that
show the history of the statue with old
photographs videos recorded oral
histories and the original torch Lady
Liberty was holding in 1886 famous
engineer Alexander Gustave Eiffel sound
familiar
help design the steel internal framework
to keep the statues stable it's strong
enough to withstand around 600 bolts of
lightning a year when the wind is high
the statue can sway by around 3
inches and it's torch about five inches
354 steps lead up to the crown of Lady
Liberty which is open to visitors but
the torch is off-limits
speaking of visiting the Statue have you
ever been there I have and walked all
those 300 some steps to inside her head
and looked out through those cool
windows it was kind of claustrophobic
and very cool number three it might have
Masonic ties there's a popular theory
claiming that the Statue of Liberty was
originally supposed to be dressed as an
Arab peasant woman and stand at the
southern opening of Egypt Suez Canal the
ruler of Egypt couldn't afford it so
Bartoli redesigned it giving it a
different dress and a new name and sent
it as a gift to the American people to
celebrate the anniversary of the
American Revolution so what does that
have to do with the Masons
well bartoli himself was a freemason he
represented the French Grand Orient
temple Masons hence his interest in
Egypt he supposedly wanted to put the
statue there to symbolize the Orient
showing the way the torch Lady Liberty
is holding is an important symbol in the
Masonic culture as the torch of
enlightenment or the flaming torch of
reason the Masons also took part in the
cornerstone laying ceremony in 1884 and
the Grand Master William a Brody
presided over it in the company of Grand
Lodge members to the face of the Statue
of Liberty could be that of a man when
you think of the Statue of Liberty do
you see it as a she most people are
positive it's a representation of the
Roman goddess of freedom Libertas the
widely accepted theory is that Bartoli
modeled her face after his mother author
and journalist Elizabeth Mitchell
however claims that the sculptor
actually used his brother's face as a
model as she was studying the
photographs of bartholdi's family the
writer noticed his mother had a
different eyebrow shape thinner nose and
lips and smaller mouth then she pointed
out the striking resemblance between the
sculptors brother in his adult years and
the statue because of his mental health
condition bartholdi's brother
spent years at the hospital and Frederic
would spend hours watching him that
could have helped him recreate his face
in every detail
another theory was presented by French
writer Nathalie Salman who claims Lady
Liberty was modelled after her ancestor
Sarah Salman according to her
Bart Foley saw Sarah's features
particularly beautiful even though she
had emigrated to the United States she
and her husband visited the sculptor at
his studio when they briefly went back
to Paris in 1875 he could have used that
opportunity to draw Sarah and later use
those images as a model number one
there's more than one Statue of Liberty
and I'm not talking about its plastic
souvenir versions or the one on Las
Vegas Boulevard you can find a smaller
Statue of Liberty which was the original
model for its big sister in the Jardin
du Luxembourg in Paris it's been there
since 1906 after Bartoli gave it to the
Luxembourg Museum for the World's Fair
of 1911 was erected on an island in the
Seine River to celebrate the 100th
anniversary of the French Revolution in
1889 it has two dates on it July 4th
1776 and July 14 1789 symbolizing the
friendship of two nations and the
importance of revolution there's also a
life-sized copy of the torch on the
point allama in Paris people from around
the world sponsored its construction as
a symbol of franco-american friendship
it was set not far from the Eiffel Tower
on the 100th anniversary of the statues
dedication hey if you learned something
new today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
cool videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life